okay so let's assume this teeny weeny
grain of sand
just about .1 inches in diameter is our
home planet earth
trust me we're not even that big on a
cosmic scale
so i'm flattering us a lot you'll see
anyway the moon will be just about here
a little over
two inches away and we'll have to find a
grain of sand that's three times
smaller than the first one it's hard to
say if this is the one
so let's again assume it is now
what's the closest neighbor to earth
apart from the moon
that's right venus it's called our
sister planet
because it's roughly the same size and
mass
so this here grain of sand is gonna be
it
as for the distance we'll have to take a
little walk now
and there we go over 20 feet away from
the grain that is the earth
and that's at its closest mind you
next comes mercury and it's more than
twice as small as the earth
so let's take a grain of salt this time
for variety
how far do you think it is from its
neighbor venus
not even close it's here almost 26 feet
away
if you've ever seen a london
double-decker bus it's just
short of that vehicle's length okay
mercury is the closest planet to the sun
so naturally
here goes the big and mighty star
measuring as huge as this rock
it's roughly eight inches in diameter so
it fits
now where should i place it well you'd
better take another double decker
and then some because the sun's distance
from mercury
is 30 feet even further than venus
and a walk from here to earth is quite a
trip already
all in all the distance is just short of
that between two baseball bases
cool huh but we've only just begun
moving away from the sun next comes mars
which is twice as small as the earth let
it be a
red pepper grain this time the distance
to it though
is even greater than from mercury to the
sun over 33 feet
so we'll place it here and now prepare
for the real thing
we're crossing the asteroid belt to
reach jupiter
to do that we'll need to travel about
feet that's almost the height of the
statue of liberty
and the planet itself is about the size
of this grape
just shy of one inch now let's take a
smaller grape
and fly another 330 feet that's how far
saturn is from jupiter can you still see
our rock i mean
sun from here i don't think i can now
if you take the golden gate bridge in
california and decide to rise from its
lowest
to highest point that would be the
distance from saturn to uranus
the seventh planet in the solar system
notice how distances grow larger every
time
that's far from over though meet neptune
uranus's brother planet
although they're neighbors it'll take us
another 820
feet to get to it put five olympic sized
pools in a line
and you'll get the scale the former
planet nine
pluto is our next destination if we go
straight from the sun
it'll be yet another four olympic pools
away
and the size of it is only a speck of
ground pepper
pluto is six times smaller than the
earth
and now comes the barely imaginable
let's first go back to our sun
and start the journey from there
remember how far that is
right more than a half a mile away now
to get to the inner boundary of the
solar system from this point
we'll have to travel around the whole
planet four times
yep we're still on the scale where the
sun is just an
eight-inch rock and when it's done we'll
find ourselves in a humongous belt of
floating chunks of ice
the oort cloud the width of this belt is
way beyond our planet's limits
but we'll try let's take three rocks of
the same size as our sun
here and lay them in a line and now
imagine
each of these rocks is the size of the
real sun
that's the width of the oort cloud for
you which goes in a circle
around the whole solar system if we put
it to our initial scale
the sun won't be even visible no bigger
than an atom
so let's scrap it now and start over
shall we
okay now this ring of stones contains
within it
the unfathomable volume of space its
radius is roughly one light year
or 0.4 inches now and that would be our
ground zero
for all the following discoveries the
closest star system from here
is alpha centauri and it will be about
1.5
inches away it consists of three stars
and at least one planet that could be
inhabitable
the system is too small to see on this
scale but we'll pretend this grain of
sand is adequate
and proceed further next we go to the
edge of the milky way galaxy
our home the galaxy itself is about 100
000 light years across but we're not far
from its very center
so the journey will only take us 50 000
light years
on the super shrunken scale we've
created here it will be
1650 feet if you lay down the cn tower
in toronto
it'll only be a few dozen feet longer
from here the nearest galaxy to us is
the andromeda
in some distant future it'll collide
with the milky way
but right now to get there we'll need to
travel nearly 15 miles
that's 2.5 million light years in normal
count
if you're interested it's also 2.5
depths of the deepest point
in the mariana trench known as the
challenger deep
next up is an object we could finally
place on a larger scale
ngc 604 a star nebula
located in the triangulum galaxy if it
were in a single line
we'd only need to travel 1.2 miles from
where we are now
so let's do it and the nebula itself
is about 1500 light years in diameter
which is equivalent to 50 feet
that's like a five-story building but
let's get back about half a mile
and look at something else this object
is almost exactly the size of a boeing
and surprisingly it's a galaxy a dwarf
galaxy to be precise
messier 32 is 6 500 light years across
and is a satellite to the andromeda
galaxy
they move together messier being tugged
along by the gravity of its big sister
and now i'm going to take you for a ride
of your life
get ready we're going into distances and
sizes that would seem
impossible if they weren't true let's
first get back to the circle of rocks
that is our solar system
moving up and away from our star system
we can see the milky way galaxy
spanning 0.6 miles wide shooting upward
still
we see the great emptiness around the
galaxy that we've already crossed today
15 miles of nothingness then
we see the galaxies and dwarf galaxies
surrounding ours
first the andromeda than others until
we're high enough
to see the whole local group it's a
galactic cluster
in which the milky way is no more than
one percent
the diameter is 62 miles
but higher still we rise and now we're
looking at a bright and shiny
laniakea supercluster which is home to
the local group
from here our galaxy isn't even visible
the diameter of the super cluster is
about 3 200 miles
it's more than the distance from los
angeles to new york
and even that's not all higher and
higher
until we see the boss great wall
it's a super cluster located
unimaginably far from us
and on our current scale its diameter is
about 6 200 miles
that's longer than the great wall of
china with all of its branches
no wonder it's the boss and finally
we're up in outer space now even though
the model of our whole galaxy stayed so
far below
you can't see it without a telescope and
we're now looking at the largest object
in the observable universe
the hercules corona borealis great wall
on the current scale it's as far as 62
100 miles away from earth or a quarter
of the distance to the moon
and its diameter is the same so it takes
up another quarter of the way
there are trillions upon trillions of
galaxies
nebulas and stars and nearly infinite
possibilities out there
and yet the universe is always expanding
so it's also only the beginning